---
layout: post
title:  Aquarium Meeting Minutes 2021-05-05
date:   2021-05-05 15:00:00 +0100
categories: meetings
author:
- Aquarist Labs
---

* General
   * Meetings going forward - let's talk about how useful each meeting is.
       * Pacific meeting seems to be worthwhile (backend focus)
       * Keeping all 3 meetings is the slightly preferred option 
           * Try and have more conversations and points of clarification without reading from the agendas
   * PjM going forward:
       * Target features will be set (this meeting will be open to all to suggest the next feature to work on - however, to kick start this process we have preset the milestone target to be ....)
       * These target features will be scoped in time and effort by the relevant parties (for example: monitoring work will require involvement with Patrick, and Joao and Volker as technical leads for front end and backend). Please take *this week* to scope the feature,
       * Once the work has been scoped, the milestone date will be set accordingly next week. This date is put in place as a general target, this can be moveable.
       * Each milestone will be set considering at least a 1-week feature freeze, whereby code will be appropriately tested.
       * Notes: community driven, everyone get involved if you have an opinion, Holgi will continue to manage the process in the backlog meetings on Wednesday evening
       * ~~Aus team - how are you finding the process without being a part of the backlog meetings? What can we do to help manage this situation?~~
           * ~~Alex will reach out to Josh and Tim about this~~
  
* Backend
   * NFS HA: Upstream has made a lot of progress (haproxy + keepalived)
       * [https://github.com/ceph/ceph/pull/41007](https://github.com/ceph/ceph/pull/41007)
       * Will have to wait for backport to Pacific
   * Persistent state / mon store partition
       * important to get this sorted, but may take more than one dev cycle
       * Requires some refactoring, some dashboard work

* Frontend
   * Refactoring of the installer:
       * glass: installer refactoring (horizontal stepper) ([https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/458)](https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/458))
       * glass: Finish deployment ([https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/468)](https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/468))
       * glass: Use icon buttons ([https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/469)](https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/469))
       * glass: service creation expansion panel description ([https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/470)](https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/470))
   * Dashboard widget fixes:
       * glass: service capacity widget improvement ([https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/471)](https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/471))
       * glass: Remove useless CSS code ([https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/473)](https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/473))

* Testing
   * Josh, Laura, Kyr - do you have a coordinated plan for testing going forward? Let's set some goals
       * Josh: We're ~~possibly~~ at a point where we can reject PRs without corresponding tests
       * Functional API test example in [https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/460](https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/460) (test\_app.py)
       * Laura: e2e test framework replacement is WIP (PR open)
           * Next step is to create further issues with defined e2e test cases to implement
       * Josh, Laura, and Kyr will create issues in relevant repos for upcoming testing issues ^ what is said there but I didn't see it at first :facepalm:

* Any other business
   * Q: Who is going to tag Milestone 3? A: Joao
   * Q: Do we need Ubuntu testing? A: Would be nice

* AI:
