---
layout: post
title:  Aquarium Meeting Minutes 2021-05-19
date:   2021-05-19 15:00:00 +0100
categories: meetings
author:
- Aquarist Labs
---

* General
   * It's about time to define the opinionated side of Aquarium
       * e.g. SSDs only for wal\_db, check network speed, ... any other automated checks / big horrible warnings - a bunch of this stuff belongs at bootstrap / node join time
       * Perhaps we should be looking at creating user stories (scenario based. Ie: Jason likes cheese, long walks on the beach, and has a massive data centre with 1000's of TBs of hardware and needs a solution...)
       * Match hardware against green/yellow/red listing and provide guidance?
       * AI: Create issues (or possibly a discussion?) on Github to collect ideas

* Backend
   * On track for milestone 4

* Frontend
   * Doing mostly code cleanup. On track for milestone 4.

* Testing
   * With [https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/493](https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/493) merged, tox reports pytest coverage with all PRs. This is a great way to find areas which need additional tests
       * Josh: An additional test could be added to ensure coverage increases (rather than decreases) with every PR
       * What about codecov? Would be neat to have that badge somewhere.
   * [https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/499](https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/499) introduces functional tests and stuff
   * [https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/480](https://github.com/aquarist-labs/aquarium/pull/480) introduces ubuntu builds

* Any other business
   * Look out for some mail in the near to distance future, depending on how fast Alex is

* AI:
 